README.md, before:

[![license badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-green.svg)](https://github.com/markxroberts/risco-mqtt-local/blob/main/LICENSE)
[![Docker Pulls](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/markxroberts/risco-mqtt-local)](https://hub.docker.com/r/markxroberts/risco-mqtt-local)
![Maintenance](https://img.shields.io/maintenance/yes/2025.svg)
[![buy me a coffee](https://img.shields.io/badge/If%20you%20like%20it-Buy%20me%20a%20coffee-orange.svg)](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/markxr)

[![Add to Home Assistant](https://my.home-assistant.io/badges/supervisor_add_addon_repository.svg)](https://my.home-assistant.io/redirect/supervisor_add_addon_repository/?repository_url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fmarkxroberts%2Frisco-mqtt-local)

# This integration is still maintained, but has been developed to the limits of the known API at the current time.  I will undertake updates as required to ensure it is up-to-date with HA #

# Risco MQTT Local integration

Provide Risco alarm panels integration to Home Assistant using Local TCP communication with Panel (no cloud access required)

This project is a fork of [Johann Vanackere](https://github.com/vanackej/risco-mqtt-local).  In turn this forks [risco-mqtt-home-assistant](https://github.com/mancioshell/risco-mqtt-home-assistant) by [Alessandro Mancini](https://github.com/mancioshell), using local APIs instead of RiscoCloud APIs.  Local APIs are based on [TJForc](https://github.com/TJForc) [local RISCO communication library](https://github.com/TJForc/risco-lan-bridge)

## Requirements

- Node.js (currently tested with >=ver. 18.x)
- Mqtt Server - e.g. Mosquitto, HiveMQ, etc.
- Home Assistant

## Features

- Interaction with RISCO alarm control panel using local APIs.
- Home Assistant MQTT autodiscovery
- RISCO multipartitions
- HA MQTT Alarm Control Panel: maps away, home and disarmed by default or other states via config.
- HA MQTT Binary Sensor: sensors for each alarm state and additional alarm triggered sensor, battery state where appropriate.
- Bypass zones in Home Assistant (additional switch created for each zone).
- Outputs supported.  Non-user-usable outputs represented as binary sensors (system outputs in configuration).  User-usable outputs represented as switches or buttons.  Note that pulsed switches are represented as buttons.  Refer to https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/button/ and https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/binary_sensor/ for acceptable device classes.
- Panel connection status/proxy status sensors.
- Configurable reconnection delay after dropping of Cloud connection.
- Buttons to republish status, autodiscovery and reinitiate communications.
- System status sensor
- System battery status, tamper and phone line binary sensor
- Ready status sensor for each partition
- For home arming and group arming, delayed arming introduced in response to partition not ready (otherwise command just fails).  This will retry for up to 30 seconds if partition not ready to arm when arming command called.  HA alarm control panel will reflect this by showing 'arming'.  This is not the same as the Risco 'arming' state which initiates delayed arming (not supported).
- Local alarm code now supported.  This doesn't validate with the panel, but is for local validation within Home Assistant.  From 2024.6.4 this is by partition.
- Ability to temporarily change logging in live application (input select)
- Logging to file option
- Now supports .yaml configuration.  If you are already using the application, it will create a `config.yaml` file for you, so you can delete the old `config.json` file.

## Installation

```
docker run -v $(pwd)/config.json:/data/config.yaml markxroberts/risco-mqtt-local:latest
```
Or install as HA add-on.

## Configuration

Create a file config.yaml in your project directory.  I suggest using `config-sample.yaml` in this folder rather than copying the commented version below.

```
log: info
logtofile: true
panel:
  panelIp: 192.168.1.150
  panelPort: 1000
  panelPassword: '1234'
  panelId: 1
  watchDogInterval: 10000
  socketMode: direct
  commandsLog: false
ha_discovery_prefix_topic: homeassistant
risco_mqtt_topic: risco-alarm-panel
filter_bypass_zones: true
alarm_system_name: Risco Alarm
ha_state_publishing_delay: 30
mqtt:
  url: mqtt://192.168.1.10:1883
  username: MQTT_USERNAME
  password: MQTT_PASSWORD
zones:
  default:
    off_delay: 30
    name_prefix: 'Sensor - '
  GARAGE:
    off_delay: 0
    device_class: garage_door
    name: Garage Door
    name_prefix: ''
partitions:
  '1':
    name: House
  '2':
    name: Garage
  default:
    name_prefix: ''
    alarm_code_arm_required: false
    alarm_code_disarm_required: false
    alarm_code: 1234
user_outputs:
  default:
    name_prefix: ''
  Up/over Trigger:
    device_class: none
    name: Garage door trigger RISCO
    name_prefix: ''
system_outputs:
  default:
    name_prefix: ''
  Bell:
    device_class: sound
    name: Alarm Bell
    name_prefix: ''
  Strobe:
    device_class: light
    name: Alarm Strobe
    name_prefix: ''
arming_modes:
  House:
    armed_away: armed_away
    armed_home: armed_home
    armed_night: armed_home
    armed_vacation: armed_away
    armed_custom_bypass: armed_group_A
```

NB Ensure that zone description matches label stored in panel exactly (including case) to ensure that config is correctly represented.

## Subscribe Topics

**risco-mqtt-local** subscribes at startup one topic for every partition in your risco alarm panel configuration.

Topic format is `<risco_mqtt_topic>/alarm/<partition_id>/set` where **partition_id** is the id of the partition

Payload could be : **disarmed** if risco panel is in disarmed mode,**armed_home** if risco panel is in armed at home mode and **armed_away** if risco panel is in armed away mode.  There are other mapping options - see below.

## Publish Topics

risco-mqtt-local publishes one topic for every partition and for every zones in your risco alarm panel configuration.

Partition topics format is `<risco_mqtt_topic>/alarm/<partition_id>/status` where **partition_id** is the id of the partition

Default payload could be: **disarmed** if risco panel is in disarmed mode,**armed_home** if risco panel is in armed at home mode and **armed_away** if risco panel is in armed away mode, **armed_custom_bypass** if another mapping has been defined.

Zones topics format is `<risco_mqtt_topic>/alarm/<partition_id>/<zone_id>/status` where **partition_id** is the id of the partition and **zone_id** is the id of the zone.

Payload could be : **triggered** if zone is curently triggered, and **idle** if zone is currently idle.

In addition to every zone status, risco-mqtt-local publishes a topic for every zone with all the info of the zone in the payload in json format. Topics format is `<risco_mqtt_topic>/alarm/<partition_id>/<zone_id>` where **partition_id** is the id of the partition and **zone_id** is the id of the zone.

Zones that may be bypassed are published as switches at: `<risco_alarm_panel>/alarm/<partition_id>/switch/<zone_id>-bypass`.  On some systems, Entry/exit zones may not be bypassed and so you can choose not to publish this by setting the filter_bypass_zones flag.

Battery-powered zones have separate sensors for the battery.   These are published at: `<risco_mqtt_topic>/alarm/<partition_id>/<zone_id>/battery`.  These only have a binary state.

Outputs are published as `<risco_mqtt_topic/alarm>/<output_id>/status` for sensor outputs.  For outputs where interaction is possible, these are published as `<risco_mqtt_topic>/alarm/<output_id>/status` unless buttons, which are stateless.  Switches/buttons are published to `<risco_mqtt_topic>/alarm/<output_id>/set` as subscribed topics.

The cloud proxy status is published at `<risco_mqtt_topic>/alarm/cloudstatus` if the cloud proxy is enabled.

Arming modes are shown in the configuration example above.  All of these are optional.  Defaults are shown.  The syntax shown here must be used for mappings to work.

## Home Assistant Auto Discovery

risco-mqtt-local supports [mqtt auto discovery](https://www.home-assistant.io/docs/mqtt/discovery/) feature.

Default `<ha_discovery_prefix>` is **homeassistant**. You can change it by overwriting the value within **ha_discovery_prefix_topic** config.

Home assistant auto discovery is republished on Home Assistant restart.

For multiple partitions, change **risco_mqtt_topic** in each installation.

## Usage

First, create the `config.yaml` file.  Only the first part of the file with system settings is mandatory.  It's not necessary to describe all of the zones/partitions/sensors as these can be customized from the Home Assistant front end.  I suggest using `config-sample.yaml` as a template.  The bind mount location is `/data` in the container.

It needs to be in yaml format.

## Full configuration options - under "panel" heading (risco-lan-bridge)
|**Entry**|**SubEntry**|**Type**|**Required**|**Example (default)**|**Description**|
|:---|:---|:---|:---|:---|:---|
|**panel:**|||||
||panelIp:|string|No|'192.168.0.100'|IP address of panel|
||panelPort:|number|No|1000|TCP port of panel|
||panelPassword:|string|No|"5678"|TCP access password for panel|
||panelId:|string|No|"0001"|Panel number (usually 0001)|
||guessPasswordAndPanelId:|boolean|No|true|Autodiscover TCP access password (brute force)|
||panelConnectionDelay:|number|No|10000|Delay before panel reconnected - cloud proxy connection (ms)|
||cloudConnectionDelay:|number|No|5000|Delay before cloud reconnects (ms)|
||autoConnect:|boolean|No|true|Panel connection automatically initiated|
||socketMode:|string|No|"direct"|For single TCP socket connections should this act as a proxy for the cloud? ('direct' or 'proxy')|
||cloudPort:|number|No|33000|Cloud port for proxy connection|
||listeningPort:|number|No|33000|Panel cloud listening port for proxy connection|
||cloudUrl:|string|No|"www.riscocloud.com"|Cloud connection URL|
||commandsLog:|boolean|No|false|Log commands (for debugging)|
||watchDogInterval:|number|No|10|For HA add-on - watchdog interval|
||encoding:|string|No|utf-8||
||reconnectDelay:|number|No|10000|Delay before reconnecting panel after disconnect (needs to be longer with newer panels)|
||badCRCLimit:|number|No|10|Number of bad messages permitted (needs to be fewer with newer panels)|
||ntpServer:|string|No|"pool.ntp.org"|Timer server|
||ntpPort:|number|No|123|Timer server port|

## Full configuration options for risco-mqtt-local
**Entry**|**Subentry**|**Subentry**|**Type**|**Required**|**Example (default)**|**Description**||
|:---|:---|:---|:---|:---|:---|:---|:---|
|log:|||string|No|info|Logging level - error/info/verbose/debug|
|logtofile:|||boolean|No|false|Logs to file risco.log in config location|
|ha_discovery_prefix_topic:|||string|No|homeassistant|Home assistant discovery prefix|
|risco_mqtt_topic:|||string|No|"risco-alarm-panel"|Topic for state changes - allows multiple panels|
|filter_bypass_zones:|||boolean|No|true|risco-mqtt-local filters those zones which can't be bypassed (entry/exit zones)|
|alarm_system_name:|||string|No|"Risco Alarm"|Device name prefix for HA entities|
|ha_state_publishing_delay:|||number|No|30|Introduces delay after publishing discovery message so that HA can process (otherwise states not shown)|
|**mqtt:**|||||||
||url:||string|Yes|none|MQTT url including port eg "mqtt://192.168.1.10:1883"|
||username:||string|No|none||
||password:||string|No|none||
|**partitions:**|||||
||**default:**|||||
|||name_prefix:|string|No||default partition prefix|
||**1**:||||||
|||name:|string|No|none||
|||alarm_code_arm_required:|boolean|No|false|Allows use of alarm code within HA|
|||alarm_code_disarm_required:|boolean|No|false|Allows use of alarm code within HA|
|||alarm_code:|number|No|1234|Alarm code to enter in HA (not panel alarm code)|
|**arming_modes:**||||
||armed_away:||string|No|"armed_away"|Risco alarm mapping - see below|
||armed_home:||string|No|"armed_home"|Risco alarm mapping - see below|
||armed_night:||string|No|"armed_home"|Risco alarm mapping - see below|
||armed_vacation:||string|No|"armed_away"|Risco alarm mapping - see below|
||armed_custom_bypass:||string|No|"armed_away"|Risco alarm mapping - see below|
||||||Options are armed_away, armed_home, armed_group_X (where X is A/B/C/D)|
|**zones:**||||||
||**default:**|||||
|||off_delay|number|No|30|Prevents binary sensors being permanently on|
|||name_prefix|string|No|none|Name prefixed to every sensor|
||**Garage:**|||||Example zone name|
|||off_delay|number|No|30|Prevents binary sensors being permanently on|
|||name|string|No|none|Name of sensor|
|||name_prefix|string|No|none|"" empties name prefix for this zone|
|**user_outputs:**||||||
||**default:**||||||
|||name_prefix:|string|No|none|Name prefixed to every user output|
|**user_outputs:**|||||||
||**Up/Over Trigger:**|||||example|
|||device_class:|string|No|none|HA Device class of user definable output (button for pulsed, switch for toggle)|
|||name:|string|No|none|Name of output|
|||name_prefix:|string|No|none|"" empties name prefix for this zone|
|**system_outputs:**|||||||
||**default:**||||||
|||name_prefix:|string|No|none|Name prefixed to every system output|
||**Alarm bell:**|||||example|
|||device_class:|string|No|none|HA Device class of user definable output (see binary_sensor device classes)|
|||name:|string|No|none|Name of output|
|||name_prefix:|string|No|none|"" empties name prefix for this zone|

### Bug reports

Please use the bug issue template and fill all requested informations, including debug logs and commands logs.

## Credits

The bulk of this work was completed by [vanackej](https://github.com/vanackej).  I've adapted this and updated it, mainly for my purposes.  Thanks to [pergolafabio](https://github.com/pergolafabio) for the proxy testing.

Thanks to [TJForc](https://github.com/TJForc) for the local communication library and [Alessandro Mancini](https://github.com/mancioshell) for his initial work.

Commit message:

2026.1.0 (#60)
* Add ProgMode sensor

* use different system object

* Switch programming mode status

* Update publishSystemStateChange

* Subscribe to ProgModeOn event

* Publish all system messages

* Readme updated

README.md, after:

[![license badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-green.svg)](https://github.com/markxroberts/risco-mqtt-local/blob/main/LICENSE)
[![Docker Pulls](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/markxroberts/risco-mqtt-local)](https://hub.docker.com/r/markxroberts/risco-mqtt-local)
![Maintenance](https://img.shields.io/maintenance/yes/2025.svg)
[![buy me a coffee](https://img.shields.io/badge/If%20you%20like%20it-Buy%20me%20a%20coffee-orange.svg)](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/markxr)

[![Add to Home Assistant](https://my.home-assistant.io/badges/supervisor_add_addon_repository.svg)](https://my.home-assistant.io/redirect/supervisor_add_addon_repository/?repository_url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fmarkxroberts%2Frisco-mqtt-local)

# This integration is still maintained, but has been developed to the limits of the known API at the current time.  I will undertake updates as required to ensure it is up-to-date with HA #

# Risco MQTT Local integration

Provide Risco alarm panels integration to Home Assistant using Local TCP communication with Panel (no cloud access required)

This project is a fork of [Johann Vanackere](https://github.com/vanackej/risco-mqtt-local).  In turn this forks [risco-mqtt-home-assistant](https://github.com/mancioshell/risco-mqtt-home-assistant) by [Alessandro Mancini](https://github.com/mancioshell), using local APIs instead of RiscoCloud APIs.  Local APIs are based on [TJForc](https://github.com/TJForc) [local RISCO communication library](https://github.com/TJForc/risco-lan-bridge)

## Requirements

- Node.js (currently tested with >=ver. 18.x)
- Mqtt Server - e.g. Mosquitto, HiveMQ, etc.
- Home Assistant

## Features

- Interaction with RISCO alarm control panel using local APIs.
- Home Assistant MQTT autodiscovery
- RISCO multipartitions
- HA MQTT Alarm Control Panel: maps away, home and disarmed by default or other states via config.
- HA MQTT Binary Sensor: sensors for each alarm state and additional alarm triggered sensor, battery state where appropriate.
- Bypass zones in Home Assistant (additional switch created for each zone).
- Outputs supported.  Non-user-usable outputs represented as binary sensors (system outputs in configuration).  User-usable outputs represented as switches or buttons.  Note that pulsed switches are represented as buttons.  Refer to https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/button/ and https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/binary_sensor/ for acceptable device classes.
- Panel connection status/proxy status sensors.
- Configurable reconnection delay after dropping of Cloud connection.
- Buttons to republish status, autodiscovery and reinitiate communications.
- System status sensor
- System battery status, tamper and phone line binary sensor
- Ready status sensor for each partition
- For home arming and group arming, delayed arming introduced in response to partition not ready (otherwise command just fails).  This will retry for up to 30 seconds if partition not ready to arm when arming command called.  HA alarm control panel will reflect this by showing 'arming'.  This is not the same as the Risco 'arming' state which initiates delayed arming (not supported).
- Local alarm code now supported.  This doesn't validate with the panel, but is for local validation within Home Assistant.  From 2024.6.4 this is by partition.
- Ability to temporarily change logging in live application (input select)
- Logging to file option
- Now supports .yaml configuration.  If you are already using the application, it will create a `config.yaml` file for you, so you can delete the old `config.json` file.
- Added new binary sensor for programming mode.  Underlying libraries suggest restart after programming mode entered.  This binary sensor can be used to support automations.

## Installation

```
docker run -v $(pwd)/config.yaml:/data/config.yaml markxroberts/risco-mqtt-local:latest
```
Or install as HA add-on.

## Configuration

Create a file config.yaml in your project directory.  I suggest using `config-sample.yaml` in this folder rather than copying the version below.

```
log: info
logtofile: true
panel:
  panelIp: 192.168.1.150
  panelPort: 1000
  panelPassword: '1234'
  panelId: 1
  watchDogInterval: 10000
  socketMode: direct
  commandsLog: false
ha_discovery_prefix_topic: homeassistant
risco_mqtt_topic: risco-alarm-panel
filter_bypass_zones: true
alarm_system_name: Risco Alarm
ha_state_publishing_delay: 30
mqtt:
  url: mqtt://192.168.1.10:1883
  username: MQTT_USERNAME
  password: MQTT_PASSWORD
zones:
  default:
    off_delay: 30
    name_prefix: 'Sensor - '
  GARAGE:
    off_delay: 0
    device_class: garage_door
    name: Garage Door
    name_prefix: ''
partitions:
  '1':
    name: House
  '2':
    name: Garage
  default:
    name_prefix: ''
    alarm_code_arm_required: false
    alarm_code_disarm_required: false
    alarm_code: 1234
user_outputs:
  default:
    name_prefix: ''
  Up/over Trigger:
    device_class: none
    name: Garage door trigger RISCO
    name_prefix: ''
system_outputs:
  default:
    name_prefix: ''
  Bell:
    device_class: sound
    name: Alarm Bell
    name_prefix: ''
  Strobe:
    device_class: light
    name: Alarm Strobe
    name_prefix: ''
arming_modes:
  House:
    armed_away: armed_away
    armed_home: armed_home
    armed_night: armed_home
    armed_vacation: armed_away
    armed_custom_bypass: armed_group_A
```

NB Ensure that zone description matches label stored in panel exactly (including case) to ensure that config is correctly represented.

## Subscribe Topics

**risco-mqtt-local** subscribes at startup one topic for every partition in your risco alarm panel configuration.

Topic format is `<risco_mqtt_topic>/alarm/<partition_id>/set` where **partition_id** is the id of the partition

Payload could be : **disarmed** if risco panel is in disarmed mode,**armed_home** if risco panel is in armed at home mode and **armed_away** if risco panel is in armed away mode.  There are other mapping options - see below.

## Publish Topics

risco-mqtt-local publishes one topic for every partition and for every zones in your risco alarm panel configuration.

Partition topics format is `<risco_mqtt_topic>/alarm/<partition_id>/status` where **partition_id** is the id of the partition

Default payload could be: **disarmed** if risco panel is in disarmed mode,**armed_home** if risco panel is in armed at home mode and **armed_away** if risco panel is in armed away mode, **armed_custom_bypass** if another mapping has been defined.

Zones topics format is `<risco_mqtt_topic>/alarm/<partition_id>/<zone_id>/status` where **partition_id** is the id of the partition and **zone_id** is the id of the zone.

Payload could be : **triggered** if zone is curently triggered, and **idle** if zone is currently idle.

In addition to every zone status, risco-mqtt-local publishes a topic for every zone with all the info of the zone in the payload in json format. Topics format is `<risco_mqtt_topic>/alarm/<partition_id>/<zone_id>` where **partition_id** is the id of the partition and **zone_id** is the id of the zone.

Zones that may be bypassed are published as switches at: `<risco_alarm_panel>/alarm/<partition_id>/switch/<zone_id>-bypass`.  On some systems, Entry/exit zones may not be bypassed and so you can choose not to publish this by setting the filter_bypass_zones flag.

Battery-powered zones have separate sensors for the battery.   These are published at: `<risco_mqtt_topic>/alarm/<partition_id>/<zone_id>/battery`.  These only have a binary state.

Outputs are published as `<risco_mqtt_topic/alarm>/<output_id>/status` for sensor outputs.  For outputs where interaction is possible, these are published as `<risco_mqtt_topic>/alarm/<output_id>/status` unless buttons, which are stateless.  Switches/buttons are published to `<risco_mqtt_topic>/alarm/<output_id>/set` as subscribed topics.

The cloud proxy status is published at `<risco_mqtt_topic>/alarm/cloudstatus` if the cloud proxy is enabled.

Arming modes are shown in the configuration example above.  All of these are optional.  Defaults are shown.  The syntax shown here must be used for mappings to work.

## Home Assistant Auto Discovery

risco-mqtt-local supports [mqtt auto discovery](https://www.home-assistant.io/docs/mqtt/discovery/) feature.

Default `<ha_discovery_prefix>` is **homeassistant**. You can change it by overwriting the value within **ha_discovery_prefix_topic** config.

Home assistant auto discovery is republished on Home Assistant restart.

For multiple partitions, change **risco_mqtt_topic** in each installation.

## Usage

First, create the `config.yaml` file.  Only the first part of the file with system settings is mandatory.  It's not necessary to describe all of the zones/partitions/sensors as these can be customized from the Home Assistant front end.  I suggest using `config-sample.yaml` as a template.  The bind mount location is `/data` in the container.

It needs to be in yaml format.

## Full configuration options - under "panel" heading (risco-lan-bridge)
|**Entry**|**SubEntry**|**Type**|**Required**|**Example (default)**|**Description**|
|:---|:---|:---|:---|:---|:---|
|**panel:**|||||
||panelIp:|string|No|'192.168.0.100'|IP address of panel|
||panelPort:|number|No|1000|TCP port of panel|
||panelPassword:|string|No|"5678"|TCP access password for panel|
||panelId:|string|No|"0001"|Panel number (usually 0001)|
||guessPasswordAndPanelId:|boolean|No|true|Autodiscover TCP access password (brute force)|
||panelConnectionDelay:|number|No|10000|Delay before panel reconnected - cloud proxy connection (ms)|
||cloudConnectionDelay:|number|No|5000|Delay before cloud reconnects (ms)|
||autoConnect:|boolean|No|true|Panel connection automatically initiated|
||socketMode:|string|No|"direct"|For single TCP socket connections should this act as a proxy for the cloud? ('direct' or 'proxy')|
||cloudPort:|number|No|33000|Cloud port for proxy connection|
||listeningPort:|number|No|33000|Panel cloud listening port for proxy connection|
||cloudUrl:|string|No|"www.riscocloud.com"|Cloud connection URL|
||commandsLog:|boolean|No|false|Log commands (for debugging)|
||watchDogInterval:|number|No|10|For HA add-on - watchdog interval|
||encoding:|string|No|utf-8||
||reconnectDelay:|number|No|10000|Delay before reconnecting panel after disconnect (needs to be longer with newer panels)|
||badCRCLimit:|number|No|10|Number of bad messages permitted (needs to be fewer with newer panels)|
||ntpServer:|string|No|"pool.ntp.org"|Timer server|
||ntpPort:|number|No|123|Timer server port|

## Full configuration options for risco-mqtt-local
**Entry**|**Subentry**|**Subentry**|**Type**|**Required**|**Example (default)**|**Description**||
|:---|:---|:---|:---|:---|:---|:---|:---|
|log:|||string|No|info|Logging level - error/info/verbose/debug|
|logtofile:|||boolean|No|false|Logs to file risco.log in config location|
|ha_discovery_prefix_topic:|||string|No|homeassistant|Home assistant discovery prefix|
|risco_mqtt_topic:|||string|No|"risco-alarm-panel"|Topic for state changes - allows multiple panels|
|filter_bypass_zones:|||boolean|No|true|risco-mqtt-local filters those zones which can't be bypassed (entry/exit zones)|
|alarm_system_name:|||string|No|"Risco Alarm"|Device name prefix for HA entities|
|ha_state_publishing_delay:|||number|No|30|Introduces delay after publishing discovery message so that HA can process (otherwise states not shown)|
|**mqtt:**|||||||
||url:||string|Yes|none|MQTT url including port eg "mqtt://192.168.1.10:1883"|
||username:||string|No|none||
||password:||string|No|none||
|**partitions:**|||||
||**default:**|||||
|||name_prefix:|string|No||default partition prefix|
||**1**:||||||
|||name:|string|No|none||
|||alarm_code_arm_required:|boolean|No|false|Allows use of alarm code within HA|
|||alarm_code_disarm_required:|boolean|No|false|Allows use of alarm code within HA|
|||alarm_code:|number|No|1234|Alarm code to enter in HA (not panel alarm code)|
|**arming_modes:**||||
||armed_away:||string|No|"armed_away"|Risco alarm mapping - see below|
||armed_home:||string|No|"armed_home"|Risco alarm mapping - see below|
||armed_night:||string|No|"armed_home"|Risco alarm mapping - see below|
||armed_vacation:||string|No|"armed_away"|Risco alarm mapping - see below|
||armed_custom_bypass:||string|No|"armed_away"|Risco alarm mapping - see below|
||||||Options are armed_away, armed_home, armed_group_X (where X is A/B/C/D)|
|**zones:**||||||
||**default:**|||||
|||off_delay|number|No|30|Prevents binary sensors being permanently on|
|||name_prefix|string|No|none|Name prefixed to every sensor|
||**Garage:**|||||Example zone name|
|||off_delay|number|No|30|Prevents binary sensors being permanently on|
|||name|string|No|none|Name of sensor|
|||name_prefix|string|No|none|"" empties name prefix for this zone|
|**user_outputs:**||||||
||**default:**||||||
|||name_prefix:|string|No|none|Name prefixed to every user output|
|**user_outputs:**|||||||
||**Up/Over Trigger:**|||||example|
|||device_class:|string|No|none|HA Device class of user definable output (button for pulsed, switch for toggle)|
|||name:|string|No|none|Name of output|
|||name_prefix:|string|No|none|"" empties name prefix for this zone|
|**system_outputs:**|||||||
||**default:**||||||
|||name_prefix:|string|No|none|Name prefixed to every system output|
||**Alarm bell:**|||||example|
|||device_class:|string|No|none|HA Device class of user definable output (see binary_sensor device classes)|
|||name:|string|No|none|Name of output|
|||name_prefix:|string|No|none|"" empties name prefix for this zone|

### Bug reports

Please use the bug issue template and fill all requested informations, including debug logs and commands logs.

## Credits

The bulk of this work was completed by [vanackej](https://github.com/vanackej).  I've adapted this and updated it, mainly for my purposes.  Thanks to [pergolafabio](https://github.com/pergolafabio) for the proxy testing.

Thanks to [TJForc](https://github.com/TJForc) for the local communication library and [Alessandro Mancini](https://github.com/mancioshell) for his initial work.
